So that's an iterator. Now iterators are nice and with a while loop, you can create your own looping
logic but maybe you would want to do for const employee of company here,
maybe this is what you want to do
and at the moment this would not be possible, if I console log employee here and I save that, you'll see
I get an error,
company is not iterable.
Now we get this next method but Javascript is actually not looking for a next method when you use a
for/of loop,
instead what it is looking for is a special symbol.
It's looking for a symbol which I can add here in company of type symbol.iterator, another well-known
symbol built into Javascript obviously
otherwise for/of couldn't be looking for it
and now what is the value for that symbol,
that's the interesting question.
The value has to be an iterator.
Now remember, company overall is an iterator because any object with a next method is an iterator.
So what we store for this symbol iterator property now should be such an object with the next method,
so not company should have the next method,
well it can but that doesn't help us
but what we store in the symbol iterator properties should be an object with the next method so that
we can use for/of
and now instead of creating such an object manually again, we can use something else which builds us such
an iterator
and that would be a generator. A generator is something in Javascript which builds us an iterator object,
so which builds as an object that does have a next method built-in. A generator in the end is a special
type of Javascript function which automatically generates iterators for you,
so which generates objects that have a next method
you could say, that's a generator. You create such a generator by using the function keyword and then
and that's special, you add a star after this keyword, this turns this function into a generator.
Then you can use any name you want here or of course also write an anonymous function,
here I will assign a name, employee generator and then you have a normal function signature,
you can get parameters here and you have your function body but the star is really important here.
Now inside of this generator function, you can now write your looping logic.
So here, we could take our while loop here,
copy it and comment it out down there and move it into our generator function.
It's now here, I'm looping through all my employees using my own next methods,
I'm still using this, we still have that but now instead of console logging the employee here, what I
do is I use another keyword which is available in Javascript and that's the yield keyword
and I yield the employee value I got here.
Now what does this all do?
Well this here in the end generates a new object, this function when it's called generates a new object
which has a next method on its own.
The fact that I use another next method in there does not matter,
we can do that but we could alternatively also put all that logic in here and just wrap it into a while
loop to go through all employees here and indeed just to avoid confusion, let's do that. Instead of utilizing
another iterator function we wrote, let's write a new loop here where we get the current employee let's
say, where we start at zero and that should be a variable of course so that we can change it
and then while current employee is smaller than this employees length, we want to continue with that loop
and inside of that loop,
I then yield this employees for the current employee.
So now here, we've got a loop that should also go through all employees but we get the special yield keyword.
The yield keyword is a bit like return,
it basically returns the thing after the yield keyword as a value, as a result of this function call.
We use yield though because this is not a normal function, we have this star here turning this into a generator.
Now what yield does is it kind of pauses execution,
well not really because what the generator function overall does is it isn't executed like this,
instead when this generator function gets executed, an iterator object will be created,
so an object which has a next method, this generator function builds you such an object. It gives you
basically what we wrote before manually out of the box and the yield keyword will then basically define
the return value of every call to the next method in that generated object.
Now it sounds complex, we'll see it in action in a second of course and it executes until it encounters yield
and then it returns the value after yield and pauses at the point where you had called yield and when
you then execute the same function again, it does not start from scratch again but continuous running
at the point where it paused before and I can show this to you here.
Let's comment out this for/of loop and let's instead for now not use a symbol here but use any key here,
get employee, any name of your choice.
So now here if I console log company get employee and I call this as a regular function and then call
next on that function
because this here, this generator produces in the end an iterator, so it produces an object with a next
method for us,
that's what a generator does,
so the return value of get employee is not what yield returns but it's just such an iterator, it's an
object with the next method.
So I have to call next on the result which we get back here and with that if we save that and we reload,
we see we get exactly the same as before but now, we're not calling our custom next method up there,
this is not happening.
I could comment this out and comment out this current employee property here to make it really clear
that this is not getting called and it will still work because the generator built such an object for
us with its own next method and we can call this next method multiple times of course as you see and
this will then execute our logic here.
Now as you see, it always however yields me Max here,
the reason for that is that whenever I call get employee, I generate a new iterator.
So instead what we should do is we should create a new constant here and call company get employee once
and then use that same object all the time down there.
In addition, after changing this, we should also make sure that in our generator logic here, we also increment
current employee by one. Now with these changes here,
we now change that whenever we yielded a new value, we increment that value and therefore now if we
save that and we reload, you see I print Max, Manu, Anna and thereafter undefined and we are done
which we aren't
before. Now this is our own generator logic doing its work here,
now why is that useful now?
Well for one we have a very simple way of creating an iterator,
we don't have to write our own next method as we did before,
we just have this short logic here and yield is the special thing here together with the star.
This allows Javascript to build such an iterator behind the scenes and whenever yield is encountered,
this basically is the point where Javascript saves the current state of execution and the next time
you call the next method on the created iterator, it will continue from that point on and therefore then
give you the next value and the next value and the next value, wrapped into such an object where the
actual value you yielded can be found on the value key and you get this additional done property that
tells you whether there are more values left or not.
Now and if we combine this with our symbol here,
so if we don't use get employee here but symbol.iterator, well then we can actually tap into some
native Javascript features to loop through our object here. Now we can indeed comment out this code down
there and use such a for/of loop here and it should work. If we do this and we reload,
you see I'm printing Max, Manu and Anna here because what a for/of loop does is it goes to this object
you're looping through and it searches for this symbol iterator thing there, then it executes the function
which it finds there which should be a generator so that in the end this returns an iterator, right?
If you execute that generator function, you get an iterator as you learned and then Javascript executes
the next method on this iterator it got for you as long as done is not true and extracts the thing in
the value property into this constant here which you can then use and consume inside of your for/of
the loop body
and this is how you can write your own for/of loopable objects with the help of this special well-known
iterator symbol and this generator function.
Now of course iterators and generators, these are very advanced features
but this really can be handy if you want to write your own looping logic.
You can either do it manually by adding your own next method and making sure it gets called correctly
or by simply writing such a generator function which together with the yield keyword allows you to define
when the function should pause or when a new value should be emitted the next time the function is called
again and again until there are no more values left,
so until there are no more yield calls found in the function execution which in this case happens once
you make it out of this while loop and then together with this special symbol, you can use for/of,
you can also use the spread operator now on this object for example. If I console log company here, this
normally would not work, not like this at least
but here you see it works and it gives me these three employees because the spread operator also behind
the scenes looks for this iterator symbol,
it then goes through all the values we get there and adds them as elements here in this new array.
These are symbols, integrators and generators, an advanced feature which still can come in handy in certain
scenarios.